Add 2023-02-02 minutes (#93)
solid/notifications-panel: meetings/2023-02-02.md

* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes
* SC

### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

* SC: Keeping the topics focused on work we need to iron out for the next release.

### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback. Links to servers/applications and demos welcome.

### Add ldn-channel-2023 ED
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/147

* SC: There was rough consensus that some of the notions, e.g., `activityType` feature, and core `receiver`, could move to Notifications Protocol.
* SC: Proposal to add `activityType` to Notifications Protocol.
* SC: Proposal to add `receiver` to Notifications Protocol.
* SC: 201 is required by LDNChannel2023. It would only be optional on the Notifications Protocol in addition to 200 in that if a SubscriptionServer were to return 201, it'll need to include `Location`.

> * SC: Also taking https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/147#issuecomment-1410518467 into account - similar to the line of thing from last weeks recommendation on `filter`.
> * SC: Should we push e.g., filtering concept/requirements through Version 0.2.0 or wait for later?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: Also taking https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/147#issuecomment-1410518467 into account — similar to the line of thing from last week's recommendation on `filter`.
* SC: Should we push, e.g., filtering concept/requirements, through Version 0.2.0, or wait for later?
```

* RG: Some repetition of content between the main protocol and ldn-channel-2023.
* eP: Nothing stops us from pushing an updated one. Prefer to track an issue how we want to add it to the protocol, e.g., inline in LDN for example. That is discussed.
* AC: If we can't release quickly we should try to get things quickly but if we can do it with more cadence then okay.
* SC: ...

> * eP: can we clarify for every document who has to approve it. Team has to approve every version of every spec or major changed? Also whoever approved there is a change-log. Going from 0.2 to 0.3 should be a simpler change-log. The review of that shouldn't take too long. I propose to make changes small.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: Can we clarify for every document, who has to approve it? Team has to approve every version of every spec, or only major changes? Also whoever approved, there is a change-log. Going from 0.2 to 0.3 should be a simpler change-log. The review of that shouldn't take too long. I propose to make changes small.
```

> * RG: can you clarify how much difference / changes to expect in the main protocol as with the LDN protocol. I don't think there'd be many.
> * eP: At least the filtering stuff we were discussing or receiver.. It can go into 0.2 or 0.3. The diff is small. Currently the person has to read the whole doc.
> * SC: I wonder if we can just push it in 0.2. On one hand we had very little discussion and implementation experience. On the other hand we feel really confident.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* RG: can you clarify how much difference / changes to expect in the main protocol as with the LDN protocol? I don't think there'd be many.
* eP: At least the filtering stuff we were discussing or receiver... It can go into 0.2 or 0.3. The diff is small. Currently, the person has to read the whole doc.
* SC: I wonder if we can just push it in 0.2. On one hand, we had very little discussion and implementation experience. On the other hand, we feel really confident.
```

* AC: These are good patterns/optional things that servers can implement or not. Low hanging fruit. If it seems useful, I don't see it harmful to add it.

> * SC: Anything else form the other notifications channel?
> * eP: The sender is undefined in some ways. We should do that before adding receiver. If we add, it should be in the main spec but don't we 
> * SC: I agree. I think this was about the identity of notification receiver. It depends how we look at it or what we need it for. We need *sendTo* to be controlled by some receiver. There is some assumption that receiver can be discovered by looking at who controls *sendTo*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: Anything else from the other notifications channel?
* eP: The sender is undefined in some ways. We should do that before adding receiver. If we add, it should be in the main spec but don't we ???
* SC: I agree. I think this was about the identity of notification receiver. It depends how we look at it, or what we need it for. We need `sendTo` to be controlled by some receiver. There is some assumption that receiver can be discovered by looking at who controls `sendTo`.
```

> * eP: Tracking issue for receiver can help. When we talked about this in one point, but hard to track this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: Tracking issue for receiver can help. We talked about this at one point, but it's hard to track this.
```

ACTION: SC to create issue for `receiver`.

> * SC: LDN spec mimic the structure of notifications protocol. It makes it easier for anyone following it to see what it changes compared to the main protocol. It does not duplicate content just extends what is needed.
> * RG: Section 1.2.3 and 1.2.4 I think are duplicated from the main spec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: LDN spec mimics the structure of notifications protocol. It makes it easier for anyone following it to see what it changes compared to the main protocol. It does not duplicate content, just extends what is needed.
* RG: I think Sections 1.2.3 and 1.2.4 are duplicated from the main spec.
```

> * SC: Right, but it extends it. It says that Subscription Server is like in the main protocol but it expects it to ask as LDN receiver. So if you are authorized you should be able to see the subscriptions.
> * eP: I think we should be careful about the impact of extending the main protocol. For LDN, it might not necessary/requires to function., e.g., SubscriptionServer, but doesn't need to act as an LDN inbox. is it must for this channel to function? it might put more burden for server to support that.
> * SC: I think there are two different things. One is editorial and second the things that could be part of the protocol but it doesn't need to act as LDN receiver. Which not only accepts the payloads but also exposes the subscriptions. Some of these implementations are going to be solid servers anyways. If they behave as LDP it already covers what LDN requires. We can expect it to be implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: Right, but it extends it. It says that Subscription Server is like in the main protocol, but it expects it to ask as LDN receiver. So if you are authorized, you should be able to see the subscriptions.
* eP: I think we should be careful about the impact of extending the main protocol. For LDN, it might not be necessary/required to function (e.g., SubscriptionServer), but doesn't need to act as an LDN inbox. Is it a must for this channel to function? It might put more burden on the server to support that.
* SC: I think there are two different things. One is editorial, and the other, things that could be part of the protocol but aren't necessary to act as an LDN receiver. Which not only accepts the payloads but also exposes the subscriptions. Some of these implementations are going to be Solid Servers anyway. If they behave as LDP, it already covers what LDN requires. We can expect it to be implemented.
```

* SC: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/141
* eP: We can merge but discuss about that specifically in separate issues.

> * RG: Wouldn't it make sense to only indicate the ones that are specialised. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* RG: Wouldn't it make sense to only indicate the ones that are specialised?
```

ACTION: SC to follow-up on creating issue for `filter`

ACTION: SC to do editorial update to clarify the diffs better.

### initial StreamingHTTPChannel2023
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/139

* SC: Okay to merge?
* AC: Good.
* RG: Okay.
* eP: Prefer to merge. Bikeshed allows partials. I want to do one common paragraph for the Webhook terminology. It can be useful for WebPush too. Have a paragraph that can be used for all.

ACTION: eP to merge and follow up with reusable paragraph on terminology.

### Add EventSourceChannel2023 Notification Type
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/144

* SC: Okay to merge?
* AC: Okay.

ACTION: AC to merge and follow up with reusable paragraph on terminology.

### initial WebhookChannel2023
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/146

* SC: Okay to merge or review?
* eP: Changed from draft to review recently. It can wait a bit.

ACTION: eP will reach out to Jackson to edit / follow up.

### Rename Subscription Resource to Subscription Service?
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/63

* SC: There is some support to use "subscription service" or "subscription service resource".

> * SC: This change doesn't affect conformance, if we agree on change, I suggest that we quickly roll it into Version 0.2.0, TR/notifications-protocol-20221231.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: This change doesn't affect conformance. If we agree on change, I suggest that we quickly roll it into Version 0.2.0, TR/notifications-protocol-20221231.
```

* SC: Any objections or concerns to change to "subscription service"?
* AC: No strong opinion.
* eP: Okay to rename to subscription service.

> * eP: Looking at the draft in push API, it uses subscription resource but a bit different ( in https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8030#section-2 ). Would be good to use another term to not potentially overlap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: Looking at the draft in push API, it uses subscription resource but a bit different (in https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8030#section-2). Would be good to use another term, to not potentially overlap.
```

* SC: We have some pluses and no objections. We can do it.
* eP: Justified to change terminology for 0.2.0.
* AC: FIne with me. Aligning on terminology should be done earlier than later. Adding/changing functionality should be done more carefully.
* RG: Yes.
    

### Rename Subscription Client
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/142

* SC: I didn't feel it is necessary and Christoph seemed to prefer subscription client as well.
* AC: No strong opinion.

> * eP: DiscoveryClient doesn't make too much sense. In case there is a subscription, it is the notification receiver that's doing the discovery. We only need to adjust which part has to implement the discovery. if there is no subscription, then it is just the notification receiver that does it. I'd wait for it on this and not for 0.2.0. justify in the discovery that sometimes the subscription client does it and sometimes the notification receiver - only channels that have `receiveFrom` and so no need for subscription client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: DiscoveryClient doesn't make too much sense. In case there is a subscription, it is the notification receiver that's doing the discovery. We only need to adjust which part has to implement the discovery. if there is no subscription, then it is just the notification receiver that does it. I'd wait for it on this and not for 0.2.0. Justify in the discovery that sometimes the subscription client does it, and sometimes the notification receiver — only channels that have `receiveFrom`, and so no need for subscription client.
```

> * RG: I thought the idea was to separate was that notification receiver could also do the subscription. we separated in principle they could be implemented separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* RG: I thought the idea to separate was that notification receiver could also do the subscription. We separated in principle; they could be implemented separately.
```

> * eP: In WebPush the receiver is the push service that comes with the web browser. 
> * RG: There are cases where they are separate .
> * SC: suggest no tot split the product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: In WebPush, the receiver is the push service that comes with the web browser. 
* RG: There are cases where they are separate.
* SC: Suggest not to split the product.
```

> * eP: Can't assume either. SubscriptionClient still needs to be able to subscribe at least. when the server only allows subscription.
> * RG: Couldn't there be implementation only does the discovery through description resource and that subscription is optional.
> * eP: NotificationReceiver may implement discovery as a set of a functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: Can't assume either. `SubscriptionClient` still needs to be able to subscribe at least, when the server only allows subscription.
* RG: Couldn't there be an implementation that only does the discovery through description resource and that subscription is optional?
* eP: `NotificationReceiver` may implement discovery as a set of a functionality.
```
